Add fail-open changes, --no-suppress-errors and default --suppress-errors (#651)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-ci/configuration-reference.md

SEMGREP_RULES="p/security-audit p/secrets"
```

> ## Configuring blocking findings or errors 

Reviewer: My typo probably.
```suggestion
## Configuring blocking findings or errors
```

Most CI providers block pull requests (PRs) or merge requests (MRs) on non-zero exit codes. Semgrep can be configured to suppress errors (this is the default behavior) or surface all errors depending on the needs of your teams and projects. Configure this behavior by the `--suppress-errors` or `--no-suppress-errors` flags.

> Semgrep always exits with a non-zero exit code (exit code 1) when it reports a blocking finding. The `--suppress-errors/--no-suppress-errors` controls whether or not semgrep errors in running Semgrep (exit code 2 and above) are surfaced in CI. When the default behavior (equivalent to passing `--suppress-errors`) is left on, Semgrep CI will send a crash report to a crash-reporting server and then exit with exit code 0. This report only contains information that would've otherwise gone to Semgrep App (if configured) on a scan, no additional information is passed. If this behavior is disabled by passing the `--no-suppress-errors` flag to `semgrep ci`, then all exit codes, including internal errors, will be surfaced to the CI provider.

Author: resolved, thank you!

Configure and change the setup of blocking findings or errors in your CI pipeline by using the following options in your YAML configuration file:

> - `semgrep ci` - This is the default state. Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors. Semgrep sends an anonymous crash report to a crash-reporting server, and then exits with exit code `0`. Optional: Define it explicitly by using `--suppress-errors` flag.

Reviewer: @s-santillan do you think I should rather use: `run: semgrep ci` and `run: semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors` to be more specific?

- `semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors` - Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **fails** on internal errors. If you use this flag, all exit codes, including internal errors, are surfaced to the CI provider.
- `semgrep ci || true` - Semgrep in CI **passes** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors.

:::info
For more information about specific Semgrep exit codes see [CLI reference](../../cli-reference/#exit-codes).
:::

To enable one of these options, insert the code under the `run` key, see the following example from GitHub Actions (GHA):

```yaml
steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v3
    - name: Scan and suppress internal errors

>       run: semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors

Reviewer 2: @spencerdrak does this sound right to you? The default should be `semgrep ci`

>       run: semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors

Reviewer: @raghavjain3 I think that @spencerdrak is trying to show how to insert the other option than the default. I will make a PR to organize information about these examples better. I will link it under this comment when done.

>       run: semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors

Reviewer: I made a new section with all examples, to make it easier for anyone to understand. @spencerdrak @raghavjain3 https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-docs/pull/651/files#diff-7a8cda04cecd252910e63690ca4b847e118f037914ebbc811f0d18ed30e170cfR43-R99

In further detail, the default behavior of Semgrep in CI towards blocking findings and errors is as follows:
- When the default behavior is configured, Semgrep encounters an error (exit code `2` and above) pipeline is **not** blocked. Semgrep in CI sends a crash report to a crash-reporting server and lets CI job continue. This report is anonymous and contains information that is usually sent to Semgrep App.
- A pipeline is blocked when Semgrep reports a blocking finding (exit code `1`). Blocking findings can mean the following:
    - Findings defined in [Rule Board](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/board) of Semgrep App. To avoid blocking findings, remove rules from the **Block** column of [Rule Board](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/board).
    - If you do **not** use Semgrep App with Semgrep in CI, blocking findings encompass **all** Semgrep findings.

Configure and change the setup of blocking findings or errors in your CI pipeline by using the following options in your YAML configuration file:

> - `semgrep ci` - This is the default state. Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors. Semgrep sends an anonymous crash report to a crash-reporting server, and then exits with exit code `0`. Optional: Define it explicitly by using `--suppress-errors` flag.

Reviewer: @spencerdrak just check if this is true... the crash-reporting server is only used when users are also utilizing Semgrep App, right - not custom CI with Semgrep?

```suggestion
- `semgrep ci` - This is the default state. Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors. Semgrep sends an anonymous crash report to a crash-reporting server (if you are using Semgrep App), and then exits with exit code `0`. As a consequence, Semgrep in CI does not report another status than `0` or `1` by default. Optional: Define this setting explicitly by using `--suppress-errors` flag (see examples below).
```

> - `semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors` - Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **fails** on internal errors. If you use this flag, all exit codes, including internal errors, are surfaced to the CI provider.

Reviewer: @spencerdrak Just a heads up - what are we trying to say by "surfaced to the CI provider"? Displayed to CI provider? Or displayed in the interface of the CI provider?

```suggestion
- `semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors` - Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **fails** on internal errors. If you use this flag, all exit codes, including Semgrep internal errors, are surfaced to the CI provider.
```

Author: The CI provider is reading the error code of each command it runs, and if one of these commands returns something other than 0, the build with fail and the CI provider will show the Red X. If you fail-open, and semgrep suppresses and error, then these errors aren't reported to the CI provider since the actual exit code is 0.

Reviewer: Thank you!

In further detail, the default behavior of Semgrep in CI towards blocking findings and errors is as follows:
- When the default behavior is configured, Semgrep encounters an error (exit code `2` and above) pipeline is **not** blocked. Semgrep in CI sends a crash report to a crash-reporting server and lets CI job continue. This report is anonymous and contains information that is usually sent to Semgrep App.
- A pipeline is blocked when Semgrep reports a blocking finding (exit code `1`). Blocking findings can mean the following:
    - Findings defined in [Rule Board](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/board) of Semgrep App. To avoid blocking findings, remove rules from the **Block** column of [Rule Board](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/board).
    - If you do **not** use Semgrep App with Semgrep in CI, blocking findings encompass **all** Semgrep findings.

Configure and change the setup of blocking findings or errors in your CI pipeline by using the following options in your YAML configuration file:

> - `semgrep ci` - This is the default state. Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors. Semgrep sends an anonymous crash report to a crash-reporting server and exits with exit code `0`. Optional: Define it explicitly by using `semgrep ci --suppress-errors` flag.

Reviewer: @spencerdrak The crash-reporting server is only used when users are also using Semgrep App, right - not custom CI with Semgrep?

```suggestion
- `semgrep ci` - This is the default state. Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors. Semgrep sends an anonymous crash report to a crash-reporting server (if you are using Semgrep App), and then exits with exit code `0`. As a consequence, Semgrep in CI does not report another status than `0` or `1` by default. Optional: Define this setting explicitly by using `--suppress-errors` flag (see examples below).
```

Reviewer: @spencerdrak I was not sure here... does it mean also that Semgrep in CI does not report any other status than 0 and 1?

Author: this is correct.

- `semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors` - Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **fails** on internal errors. If you use this flag, all exit codes, including internal errors, are surfaced to the CI provider.
- `semgrep ci || true` - Semgrep in CI **passes** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors.

> 

Reviewer: @spencerdrak I think we need to add a table (without any additional details, we inform about all this above already.

```suggestion
See the following table that summarizes these configuration options:

| CI option                           | Description                         |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| `semgrep ci`                        | Default: CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors.  |
| `semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors`   | CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **fails** on internal errors.            |
| `semgrep ci || true`                | CI **passes** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors.          |

To configure these options, insert the code after the `run` key (for example `run: semgrep ci --suppress-errors` to explicitly state the default option). See the [Examples of blocking findings or errors configuration](#examples-of-blocking-findings-or-errors-configuration) below.
```

> 

Reviewer: @spencerdrak I think we need to add a table (without any additional details, we inform about all this above already.

```suggestion
See the following table that summarizes these configuration options:

| CI option                           | Description                         |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| `semgrep ci`                        | Default: CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors.  |
| `semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors`   | CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **fails** on internal errors.            |
| `semgrep ci || true`                | CI **passes** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors.          |

To configure these options, insert the code after the `run` key (for example `run: semgrep ci --suppress-errors` to explicitly state the default option). See the [Examples of blocking findings or errors configuration](#examples-of-blocking-findings-or-errors-configuration) below.
```

    - Findings defined in [Rule Board](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/board) of Semgrep App. To avoid blocking findings, remove rules from the **Block** column of [Rule Board](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/board).
    - If you do **not** use Semgrep App with Semgrep in CI, blocking findings encompass **all** Semgrep findings.

Configure and change the setup of blocking findings or errors in your CI pipeline by using the following options in your YAML configuration file:

- `semgrep ci` - This is the default state. Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors. Semgrep sends an anonymous crash report to a crash-reporting server and exits with exit code `0`. Optional: Define it explicitly by using `semgrep ci --suppress-errors` flag.
- `semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors` - Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **fails** on internal errors. If you use this flag, all exit codes, including internal errors, are surfaced to the CI provider.
- `semgrep ci || true` - Semgrep in CI **passes** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors.

> To enable one of these options, insert the code after the `run` key (for example `run: semgrep ci --suppress-errors` to explicitly state the default option). See the [Examples of blocking findings or errors configuration](#examples-of-blocking-findings-or-errors-configuration) below.

Reviewer: @spencerdrak I think we need to add a table (without any additional details, we inform about all this above already.

```suggestion
See the following table that summarizes these configuration options:

| CI option                                             | Description                                                                                                       |
|-------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `semgrep ci`                                      | Default: CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors.  |
| `semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors` | CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **fails** on internal errors.                     |
| `semgrep ci || true`                           | CI **passes** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors.           |

To configure these options, insert the code after the `run` key (for example `run: semgrep ci --suppress-errors` to explicitly state the default option). See the [Examples of blocking findings or errors configuration](#examples-of-blocking-findings-or-errors-configuration) below.
```

## Suppressing blocking findings or errors

> Most CI providers block pull requests (PRs) or merge requests (MRs) on non-zero exit codes. Semgrep can be configured to suppress errors (this is the default behavior) or surface all errors depeding on the needs of your specific projects. This behavior is controlled via the `--suppress-errors/--no-suppress-errors` flag, and defaults to suppressing all errors _except_ blocking findings, which surface as exit code 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most CI providers block pull requests (PRs) or merge requests (MRs) on non-zero exit codes. Semgrep can be configured to suppress errors (this is the default behavior) or surface all errors depending on the needs of your teams and projects. Configure this behavior by the `--suppress-errors` or `--no-suppress-errors` options.
```

Reviewer: Are they called options in YAML still? @spencerdrak I am not sure if we should call them flags... options sounds like configuration option... but yeah, `semgrep ci --suppress-errors` is a flag? Nathan made this suggestion, maybe you can help me to understand it better. :D https://www.notion.so/r2cdev/r2c-technical-communication-style-guide-4d1104e78927460aa8c7624aedd6561f#b859f45cf6ab4f559f8ee5482778a335

Author: It is a flag per this doc, will adjust

Reviewer: @spencerdrak I was not really sure, we use double hyphens here. See:  `in the CLI these exclusively begin with either a single or double hyphen, options that begin with a single hyphen are short forms of an option that begins with a double hyphen; note that many options can be composed of multiple tokens.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most CI providers block pull requests (PRs) or merge requests (MRs) on non-zero exit codes. Semgrep can be configured to suppress errors (this is the default behavior) or surface all errors depending on the needs of your teams and projects. Configure this behavior by the `--suppress-errors` or `--no-suppress-errors` flags.
```

> Semgrep always exits with a non-zero exit code (exit code 1) when it reports a blocking finding. The `--suppress-errors/--no-suppress-errors` controls whether or not semgrep errors in running Semgrep (exit code 2 and above) are surfaced in CI. When the default behavior (equivalent to passing `--suppress-errros`) is left on, Semgrep CI will send an anonymous crash report to a crash-reporting server and then exit with exit code 0. If this behavior is disabled by passing the `--no-suppress-errors` flag to `semgrep ci`, then all exit codes, including internal errors, will be surfaced to the CI provider. For more information about specific Semgrep exit codes see [CLI reference](../../cli-reference/#exit-codes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Semgrep blocks your pipeline when it reports a blocking finding (exit code `1`). Blocking findings are defined in [Rule Board](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/board) of Semgrep App. Also, the default behavior is such that when Semgrep encounters errors (exit code `2` and above) your pipeline is **not** blocked. You can configure and change the behavior of blocking findings or errors in your CI pipeline by using the following options in your YAML configuration file:
```

Author: @adamkvitek if we take this out, then I don't think we have much mention of the use of the `--suppress-errors/--no-suppress-errors` flags on the CLI, right? I'm happy to merge what you wrote with what I wrote, but I want to make sure we preserve that. It also mentions that we send crash reporting to our servers, which I think is important.

Reviewer: @spencerdrak we mention it below already, we do not need to double this information (see further suggested edits below).

Reviewer: Use the last suggestion from https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-docs/pull/651#discussion_r940435686 @spencerdrak

Configure the behavior of Semgrep in CI to suppress blocking findings or internal Semgrep errors blocking your pipeline by using the following options in your YAML configuration file: 

- `semgrep ci` - Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **passes** on internal errors.

> - `semgrep ci --no-suppress-errros` - Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **fails** on internal errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `semgrep ci --no-suppress-errros` - Semgrep in CI **fails** on blocking findings, CI **fails** on internal errors. If used, all exit codes, including internal errors, are surfaced to the CI provider.

:::info
For more information about specific Semgrep exit codes see [CLI reference](../../cli-reference/#exit-codes).
:::
```
